---
title: "Community Manager Meeting June 5, 2019"
tags: news community
keywords: news community
permalink: 2019-06-05-cm-minutes.html
summary: "Minutes from the Community Manager meeting on June 5th"
hide_sidebar: true
hide_navtoggle: true
toc: true
---

## First meeting of the community managers for the 2019 term

Today the first meeting of the Gerrit Community Managers took place in an
online meeting. This post contains a short summary of the topics that were
covered.

### Attendees

Edwin Kempin, Marco Miller, Matthias Sohn

### Place/Date/Duration

Online meeting, June 5, 17:00-18:00 CET

## Minutes

### Community manager role

* like a Scrum master for the Gerrit community
* support the community and the ESC
* help to remove impediments, try to identify them pro-actively
* time we can spend: 10-25%

### Working mode

* Regular online meeting, target weekly
* Agenda and notes are kept private since they may contain sensitive information
* Minutes will be published

### Backlog and communication

* Backlog in new [component "Community" in issue tracker](https://issues.gerritcodereview.com/issues?q=componentid:1371048)
* Establish a dedicated google group for discussions with community managers, sensitive topics need private group, explore what is supported by google groups, see [issue 40010768](https://issues.gerritcodereview.com/issues/40010768)

### Introduce community managers

* added list of community managers to the [members page of the Gerrit website](https://www.gerritcodereview.com/members.html#community-managers)
* will post introduction on repo-discuss once dedicated google group is available

### Measure community satisfaction

* consider surveys, discussion to be continued, see [issue 40010771](https://issues.gerritcodereview.com/issues/40010771)
* community retrospective similar to a scrum retrospective planned for user summit in Gothenburg on 29-30th August, see [issue 40010774](https://issues.gerritcodereview.com/issues/40010774)
* consider community retrospective after releases
  * gather experience with the retrospective planned for user summit Gothenburg
  * do retrospective face to face at hackathon
  * publish results as Gerrit change and let everyone comment and contribute further ideas in the review

### Possibilities to better align Gerrit community with JGit and Bazel communities

* Bazel conference in Mountain View and Gerrit user summit in Sunnyvale both planned for Nov
* invite a Bazel talk to the Gerrit user summit in Sunnyvale, see [issue 40010773](https://issues.gerritcodereview.com/issues/40010773)
* invite for JGit presentations at Gerrit user summits, see [issue 40010772](https://issues.gerritcodereview.com/issues/40010772)
* [EclipseCon Europe Oct 21-24](https://www.eclipsecon.org/europe2019) would be another opportunity to meet JGit committers and contributors

### Code of conduct

* consider introducing a code of conduct for the Gerrit project, discussion to be done, see [issue 40010775](https://issues.gerritcodereview.com/issues/40010775)

### Testimonials

* CMs will drive gathering of [testimonials](https://www.gerritcodereview.com/testimonials.html)
  * [Try to get some as example from/for (about Gerrit at) Google](https://issues.gerritcodereview.com/issues/40010784)
  * [Try to get one from/for (about Gerrit at) SAP](https://issues.gerritcodereview.com/issues/40010783)
  * [Try to get one from/for (about Gerrit at) Ericsson](https://issues.gerritcodereview.com/issues/40010782)
