---
title: "Gerrit ESC Meeting #1 Minutes"
tags: news
keywords: news
permalink: 2019-05-19-esc-minutes.html
summary: "Minutes from the ESC meeting held on May 16th 2019"
hide_sidebar: true
hide_navtoggle: true
toc: true
---

## Constitutive meeting of the engineering steering committee for the 2019 term

Today the first and constitutive meeting of the Engineering Steering Committee took
place in-person in Munich. This post contains a short summary of the topics that were
covered.

### Attendees

Luca Milanesio, David Pursehouse, Alice Kober-Sotzek, Ben Rohlfs, Patrick Hiesel

### Place/Date/Duration

Munich, May 16, 11am - 12:30pm

## Minutes

* The homepage should have a place to list maintainers (both active and past) as
  well as a place to list ESC members (both active and past).

* The current homepage has a number of downsides (requires a manual push, compiles
  markdown to HTML, limited in what the output can look like). We want to look into
  other options that alleviate some of these. We will approach the wider community
  with a proposal once it materializes to seek input.

* Further Meetings will be Tuesdays, 12:30pm MUC time. The cadence we start with is bi-weekly.

* Edwinâ€™s remaining governance documentation changes have enough community support that
  they can be merged, so ESC will vote and submit. Further modifications are always possible
  through iterative changes.

* Through rotating jobs, a lot of Google-maintainers became inactive. We will approach them
  to see if they are interested in contributing in the future or would be OK with giving up
  maintainership status.

* New maintainers, especially new hires on the Google teams, need to pass the same bar as
  everyone else to become a maintainer (that was alleviated for Ole and Ben because they
  took over the complete frontend from scratch). They might pass that bar faster though
  as they spend the majority of time on Gerrit.

* For future Gerrit events (user summits/hackathons) we could try to collocate them with
  other events (e.g. JGit conference, etc.) to provide more benefit to users who attend.

* The ESC will process the input we got from the hackathon (especially around design docs)
  and send around a concrete proposal including the first 1-2 design docs adhering to the
  template for the community to give feedback on.

* Our bugtracker has come of age, so we want to investigate other options. As soon as
  concrete proposals materialize, they will be presented to get feedback.

We are looking forward to working with you on making these ideas become a reality.
