---
title: "Gerrit Community Manager minutes"
tags: news
keywords: news
permalink: 2025-10-23-cm-minutes.html
summary: "Gerrit Community Manager minutes"
hide_sidebar: true
hide_navtoggle: true
toc: true
---

# Gerrit Community Managers Meeting, October 23rd, 2025

**Participants**: Daniele Sassoli, Nasser Grainawi, Matthias Sohn, Luca Milanesio

# Gerrit Community Update: October 2025
This update covers key discussions, events, and future planning points discussed
by the Gerrit community team, reflecting recent activities and upcoming
initiatives.

## Gerrit User Summit 2025 Review
The recent Gerrit User Summit was a great success, one of the best ones in over a decade, generating considerable enthusiasm and valuable discussion. We were
particularly excited to welcome members of the broader Git ecosystem, including
Patrick Steinhart from GitLab and Scott Chacon from GitButler. Their presence
fostered excellent cross-project conversations and highlighted areas for future
collaboration.

We extend our sincere thanks to the OpenInfra Foundation for their generous
support and for hosting the event, ensuring a smooth and productive gathering
for all attendees.

## Future Conference and Contribution Planning
Looking ahead, we are exploring new ways to expand community engagement and collaboration:

### 2026 Summit Planning
Luca suggested initiating early conversations with
GitButler, Google, GitLab and other interested parties about jointly planning an
even more integrated conference, reminiscent of the old [GitTogether](https://opensource.googleblog.com/2011/12/gittogether-2011.html) days for
next year, where we could cover even more broadly the git ecosystem, maybe even
including the JJ community.

### New contributors Hackathon
To encourage new contributions and onboard organizations like GitButler, Luca
proposed a German-based company to host a Gerrit beginners hackathon in Berlin. Matthias has offered
to check on providing a suitable room for the event but requires a confirmed
date to proceed with logistics.

### FOSDEM Attendance
Matthias will also investigate the possibility of officially representing the
Gerrit project at FOSDEM to raise visibility and connect with other open-source
communities. The deadline for the call for stands is the 9th of November.

### Upcoming Meetup
Google Munich Office
Mark your calendars! The next [Gerrit community meetup](https://www.meetup.com/gerritmeets/events/310709185/) will take place at the
Google Munich office on November 19th in collaboration with the Google Cloud
Developer Group. The event is already sold out on the GDG page, while there are
still a few spots available on the meetup.com. Dani will send a formal
announcement of the event to the mailing list next week.

## Project Updates

### Website and Branding
Website Redesign
Progress is continuing on the redesign of the Gerrit Code Review website. Nasser
will commit to doing more reviews on the homepage mock-ups and development.

If you're a frontend developer and would like to propose your own design feel
free to reach out on discord or the mailing list.

### Project Logo (Diffy)
A recurring point of discussionâ€”and a notable observation from the OpenInfra
attendees is that only a couple of people out of hundreds using Gerrit at the OpenInfra projects were aware
that Diffy is the official Gerrit logo. This suggests a potential issue with
brand recognition. We propose to start discussions again on improving the project
logo to one that is more immediately recognizable and representative of the
Gerrit code review tool.