---
title: "Gerrit Community Managers Meeting, January 29th, 2026"
tags: news
keywords: news
permalink: 2026-01-29-cm-minutes.html
summary: "Gerrit Community Manager minutes"
hide_sidebar: true
hide_navtoggle: true
toc: true
---

**Participants**: Daniele Sassoli, Nasser Grainawi, Matthias Sohn, Terry Parker, Ivo Ristovski List

# Gerrit Community Update: January 2026
This update covers key discussions, events, and future planning points discussed
by the Gerrit community team, reflecting recent activities and upcoming
initiatives.

## Welcome Ivo and Terry
Recently the Git/Gerrit team at Google has undergone some changes after Ben
Rohlfs left the project in 2025 to move to pastures anew.
Ivo joined the Gerrit team as Engineering Manager late into 2025, he joins from
the Bazel team and brings lot of Open-Source experience to the project, which is
always great to see.
Recently, he was joined by Terry, who will be overseeing all things Git
at Google. Terry is a long standing member of the Gerrit community having worked
alongside Shawn since the project was in its early stages.

Welcome Ivo and Terry, its great to have you guys join us and we're looking
forwarding to your input and support to the project.

## Gerrit User Summit 2026
We're trying to start early with organizing the summit this year after last
year's great success. We put a first feeder out to the bazel community to
co-locate it with BazelCon, however it looks like the venue won't be able to
support another event at the same time.
We'll keep speaking with interested parties and will update the community once a
decisions has been made, hopefully with plenty of notice for people to organize
their travel plan.

## Roadmap
We discussed whether it makes sense to still keep a roadmap out as its not
updated all that often and especially with how quickly things are changing in
the age of AI.
We agreed that its still important to have a document to show where the project
is headed in the future, but maybe it doesn't need to be as granular as it
currently is.

## Website Redesign
Dani is to address Nasser's comments and hopefully we can get this released
soon.

## Gerrit Contributor hangout
Nasser has been taking the lead on these, however, we agreed that we should look
to advertise them better and make people aware when they're happening.

## Gitiles
As there where a few recent changes that took quite some prodding to get merged
Dani brought up the subject of Gitiles maintainership. Terry confirmed that its
very much used within Google because of its powerful APIs but not as much as a
code browser and if there are people happy to contribute to the UX we should aim
to facilitate them. We'll review activity on the repo in a few months and decide
if anything needs to be done.