# Gerrit 2.14 *(In development)*

[TOC]

## Release Highlights

* New UI PolyGerrit
* Changes can be assigned to specific users
* HTML emails and new templating framework
* Secondary index with Elastic Search
* Support for ssh-eddsa keys.

## Important Notes

### Schema Changes

This release contains schema changes. To upgrade:

``` sh
  java -jar gerrit.war init -d site_path
```

### Email Templates

This release deprecates the use of Velocity mail templates. It will soon
be necessary to upgrade custom mail templates to Soy files.

## New Features

### Change Assignee

### Emails

Gerrit email messages are made easier to read by sending HTML content parts in
addition to the existing text email content.

Mail templates can now be written using Closure Templates (Soy). Mail templates
written in Velocity (VTL) are deprecated but still supported. Support for VTL
will be dropped in the next release.

#### Footer links

* The footer now links to PolyGerrit. All you have to do is press the "New UI button" for PolyGerrit
and "Old UI" for the GWT UI.

### Secondary Index with Elastic Search

### SSHD

* [Issue 4507](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=4507):
Add support for elliptic curve/ed25519 SSH keys

### User Interface

* To switch to PolyGerrit's UI, append the URL with ?polygerrit=1, to switch back to GWT UI, append
the URL with ?polygerrit=0.

## Bugfixes

* [Issue 5234](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=5234):
Fix ssh GSSAPI auth

## Dependency Updates

* Update codemirror to 5.25.0

* Update SSHD to 1.4.0

* Update mina to 2.0.16


## Dev tools

* Buck was replaced with Bazel. There are two modes  standalone mode and in gerrit tree build mode.
  Also see https://gerrit.googlesource.com/bazlets/ repo and also
  see link:dev-bazel.html[Building with Bazel]
