---
title: "Gerrit 2.16 Release (RC3)"
permalink: 2.16.html
hide_sidebar: true
hide_navtoggle: true
toc: true
---

Download: **[2.16-rc3](https://gerrit-releases.storage.googleapis.com/gerrit-2.16-rc3.war)**

Documentation: **[2.16-rc3](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/2.16/index.html)**

## Release Highlights

* GWT UI is deprecated, and PolyGerrit is now the default UI.

* Experimental Dark Mode in PolyGerrit.

* Inline editing support in PolyGerrit UI.

* Redesigned UI for PolyGerrit based on material design.

* New configuration option to ignore self-approval on labels.

* New CommonMark/Markdown parser.

## Important Notes

[NoteDb](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/2.16/note-db.html)
is now required for accounts (since 2.15) and groups (since 2.16), and is the preferred storage for changes.

When upgrading to Gerrit v2.16, you are strongly advised to migrate fully (including changes) from ReviewDb to NoteDb.

Although ReviewDb is still technically available on Gerrit v2.16, the upgrade to NoteDb is strongly recommended, although not enforced.

Note that in the next version of Gerrit (v3.0), ReviewDb will not be available.

### Schema Changes

This release contains schema changes. To upgrade:

``` sh
  java -jar gerrit.war init -d ${site_path}
```

### New logging framework

For logging Gerrit is now using [Flogger](https://github.com/google/flogger)
instead of SLF4J. The logging backend is still LOG4J.

The Flogger LOG4J backend is configured by a system property
(`flogger.backend_factory=com.google.common.flogger.backend.log4j.Log4jBackendFactory#getInstance`)
that must be set for logging to work. There is an init step that automatically
sets this system property in the `gerrit.config` file and in addition Gerrit
tries to set this system property automatically on startup if it isn't set yet.
However for some setups you may need to do additional actions to make sure that
this system property is set.

In addition there is a system property that needs to be set for
[request tracing](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/2.16/user-request-tracing.html)
(`flogger.logging_context=com.google.gerrit.server.logging.LoggingContext#getInstance`).
Also this system property is automatically set in the `gerrit.config` file by an
init step and in addition Gerrit tries to set this system property automatically
on startup if it isn't set yet. However for some setups you may need to do
additional actions to make sure that this system property is set.

SLF4J can still be used by plugins, but using SLF4J in plugins is deprecated and
with the next Gerrit release SLF4J will no longer be exported as part of the
Gerrit plugin API jar. This means from the next release onwards, plugins must either
migrate to Flogger or have an own dependency on SLF4J.

### Reindex for new projects index and changed group index

Gerrit 2.16 introduces a new secondary index for projects. The initial version
of this index must be created by running the offline reindex before starting
Gerrit:

``` sh
  java -jar gerrit.war reindex --index projects -d ${site_path}
```

The group index gained two new fields, which Gerrit 2.16 depends on. For this
reason, the following command to offline reindex the group index must be
executed as well:

``` sh
  java -jar gerrit.war reindex --index groups -d ${site_path}
```

The offline reindex for groups should also be run on Gerrit slave hosts.

Note that if you are migrating from v2.15, it is not necessary to reindex the changes and accounts indexes
offline. These will automatically be reindexed by the online reindexer after
starting Gerrit.

### Migration to NoteDb

You should review the documentation on [NoteDb](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/2.16/note-db.html),
including the information about the migration process:

- [On-line migration](https://gerrit-review.googlesource.com/Documentation/note-db.html#online-migration)
- [Off-line migration](https://gerrit-review.googlesource.com/Documentation/note-db.html#offline-migration)

In Gerrit 2.15:
* Account data (with the exception of Group data) was moved to NoteDB ([release notes](https://www.gerritcodereview.com/2.15.html#notedb-for-accounts)).
* Change data could be either moved to NoteDB ([migration process](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/2.15/note-db.html#migration)), or left in ReviewDB.

In Gerrit 2.16:
* Group data is always moved to NoteDB (it is migrated automatically during the upgrade process, when you run `gerrit.war init`).

### Support for GWT UI is deprecated

From 2.16 GWT UI is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.

### Support for Velocity templates removed

In [version 2.14](2.14.md) support for Soy templates was added. For backwards
compatibility, support for Velocity templates (VTL) was kept.

In version 2.16 support for VTL is completely removed. Site administrators must
replace any Velocity templates (`.vm` files in `$site/etc/mail/`) with the equivalent
Soy templates before upgrading to this version.

### Push to refs/changes is deprecated

The possibility to push to `refs/changes` is now disabled by default.  It is
still possible to enable it in the gerrit config by setting
[receive.allowPushToRefsChanges](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/2.16/config-gerrit.html#receive.allowPushToRefsChanges)
to true.

### DELETE requests with bodies are no longer recommended

Some proxies, which are not under client control, prohibit DELETE requests with
bodies. DELETE requests with bodies could work on a first attempt, but could
fail afterwards because a server they have no control over was updated. In this
case, client users could be in trouble if they were not notified.

Therefore, we have decided to no longer recommend sending DELETE requests with
bodies. They will continue to work in this release but should be considered as
deprecated and will be removed in the next release.

### Pegdown is replaced by Flexmark

[flexmark-java](https://github.com/vsch/flexmark-java) is a Java implementation of
CommonMark 0.28 spec parser using the blocks first, inlines after Markdown parsing
architecture.

Its strengths are speed, flexibility, Markdown source element based AST with details
of the source position down to individual characters of lexemes that make up the
element and extensibility, compared to Pegdown speed that was, in general, less than
ideal and for pathological input either hangs or practically hangs during parsing.

## New Features

### REST API

There are several new REST endpoints and additions to existing endpoints, as described in the [REST API](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/2.16/rest-api.html) documentation.

### New configuration option to ignore self approval on labels

A new option for Review Labels,
[label.Label-Name.ignoreSelfApproval](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/2.16/config-labels.html#label_ignoreSelfApproval),
is available.

If true, the label may be voted on by the uploader of the latest patch set, but their approval does not make a change submittable. Instead, a non-uploader who has the right to vote has to approve the change.

It defaults to `false`, but one possible use case is to set the value to `true` for the `Code-Review` label in the `All-Projects` project.
That value will then be inherited by all projects that do not override the `Code-Review` label settings.

### CodeMirror plugin for PolyGerrit

A new core plugin, `codemirror-editor`, is available,
which uses [CodeMirror](https://codemirror.net/) to provide a rich code editing experience in PolyGerrit.

When you upgrade Gerrit using `init -d`, you are given the option to install the `codemirror-editor` plugin.

### Request Tracing

Tracing can now be enabled for single requests. If a request is traced a unique
trace ID is attached to all logs that are triggered by the request. In addition
all logs are enforced regardless of the configured log level. Given the trace ID
an administrator can find the trace in the error log and debug issues more
easily. Detailed information about request tracing can be found in the
[request tracing documentation](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/2.16/user-request-tracing.html).

## Dependency Updates

* Update args4j to 2.33

* Update Brics Automaton to 1.12-1

* Update BouncyCastle to 1.60

* Update commons-compress to 1.15

* Update commons-lang3 and commons-net to 3.6

* Update Dropwizard metrics-core to 3.2.5

* Update elasticsearch to 2.4.6

* Add dependency to flexmark-java 0.34.18

  [Flexmark](https://github.com/vsch/flexmark-java) is a CommonMark/Markdown
  parser for java.

* Add dependency to flogger 0.3.1

  [Flogger](https://github.com/google/flogger) is a fluent logging API for Java
  and Gerrit is using Flogger instead of SLF4J now.

* Update greenmail to 1.5.5

* Update gson to 2.8.5

* Update guice-* to 4.2.1

* Update JGit to 5.1.3.201810200350-r

* Update Lucene to 6.6.5

* Update mime4j to 0.8.1

* Update OpenID4Java to 1.0.0

* Update Ow2.asm to 6.2.1

* Update javax.mail to 1.6.0

* Update Jetty to 9.4.12.v20180830

* Update protobuf-java to 3.4.0

* Update soy to 2018-03-14

* Update SSHD to 2.0.0 and Mina to 2.0.17

* Update tomcat-servlet-api to 8.5.23

* Update tukaani-xz to 1.6

* Remove dependency on Velocity

* Remove dependency on joda-time and joda-convert

  NOTE: joda-* dependencies are no longer exported in the Gerrit plugin API.
  Existing plugins that still rely on them need to be amended to include the
  explicit dependency on joda-* libraries.

## Plugin API changes

* The class `com.google.gerrit.server.api.accounts.AccountExternalIdCreator` was
  moved to `com.google.gerrit.server.account.AccountExternalIdCreator`.
