---
title: "Gerrit 3.1.0 Release"
permalink: 3.1.html
hide_sidebar: true
hide_navtoggle: true
toc: true
---

Download: **[3.1.4](https://gerrit-releases.storage.googleapis.com/gerrit-3.1.4.war)**
| [3.1.3](https://gerrit-releases.storage.googleapis.com/gerrit-3.1.3.war)
| [3.1.2](https://gerrit-releases.storage.googleapis.com/gerrit-3.1.2.war)
| [3.1.1](https://gerrit-releases.storage.googleapis.com/gerrit-3.1.1.war)
| [3.1.0](https://gerrit-releases.storage.googleapis.com/gerrit-3.1.0.war)

Documentation: **[3.1.4](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.4/index.html)**
| [3.1.3](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.3/index.html)
| [3.1.2](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.2/index.html)
| [3.1.1](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.1/index.html)
| [3.1.0](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.0/index.html)

## Release Highlights

* Support for git protocol v2

* Polymer 2

* Mandatory plugins

* Performance logging and tracing

See the [New Features](#new-features) section for further details.

## Important Notes

### Schema Changes

This release does not contain any schema changes. To upgrade:

``` sh
  java -jar gerrit.war init -d site_path
```

### Breaking Changes

#### The `reviewdb.client` package is renamed to `entities`

Plugins or extensions that import classes from the `com.google.gerrit.reviewdb.client`
package must change the imports to `com.google.gerrit.entities`.

#### Changed APIs for `Id` and `NameKey` classes

Plugins and extensions that instantiate and use classes such as `Account.Id`,
`Change.Id`, `Project.NameKey`, `Branch.NameKey`, etc, must adapt to the following
changes.

* The classes can no longer be instantiated with the `new` operator. Instead they
must be created with static factory methods.

  * `new Account.Id(...)` --> `Account.id(...)`
  * `new AccountGroup.Id(...)` --> `AccountGroup.id(...)`
  * `new AccountGroup.UUID(...)` --> `AccountGroup.uuid(...)`
  * `new Branch.NameKey(...)` --> `BranchNameKey.create(...)`
  * `new Project.NameKey(...)` --> `Project.nameKey(...)`

* 'Getter' methods are now generated by the auto-value library and no longer have
the `get` prefix.

  * `Account.getName()` -> `Account.name()`
  * ...etc

#### REST API endpoint implementations must return `Response<T>`

REST API endpoint implementations must now return a `Response` object that
explicitly sets a status code. Plugins that currently only return an `Object`
must be adapted to the new interface.

#### Powermock and Easymock are removed

The Powermock and Easymock libraries are no longer exported in the `acceptance-framework`
artifact, and are replaced by Mockito. Plugins that use Powermock and/or Easymock in their
tests should either add explicit dependencies, or migrate the tests to Mockito.

#### Polymer 2 and Shadow DOM may break JavaScript plugins

The Gerrit frontend has been migrated from Polymer 1 to
[Polymer 2](https://polymer-library.polymer-project.org/2.0/docs/upgrade) and to using
[Shadow DOM](https://polymer-library.polymer-project.org/2.0/docs/devguide/shadow-dom).
This may break JavaScript plugins, e.g. if they use `document.getElementById()` to reach
into the DOM. Instead, plugins will have to use dedicated plugin endpoints together
with calling
[`plugin.registerCustomComponent`](https://gerrit-review.googlesource.com/Documentation/js-api.html#self_registerCustomComponent).

#### Browser Support

Internet Explorer is not supported. Major browsers are supported for the following
versions and newer: Firefox 68, Chrome 76, Safari 12.1.

#### Legacy support for pushing to `refs/drafts/` is removed

The `change.allowDrafts` configuration option is removed, and it is no longer
possible to push new changes or patch sets to `refs/drafts/<branch-name>`.

#### Support for pushing to `refs/changes/` is removed

The `receive.allowPushToRefsChanges` configuration option is removed, and it is
no longer possible to add a new patch set to a change by pushing to
`refs/changes/<change number>`.

#### JGit Configuration is no longer read from system level `.gitconfig`

JGit's configuration options are now read from the `$site/etc/jgit.config`
file rather than the system level `.gitconfig`.

#### New limit on the number of change meta updates

Many NoteDb operations require walking the entire change meta ref and loading
its contents into memory, so changes with arbitrarily many updates may cause
high CPU usage, memory pressure, persistent cache bloat, and other problems.

A new configuration option
[`change.maxUpdates`](http://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.0/config-gerrit.html#change.maxUpdates)
allows to set the maximum number of updates that are allowed.

#### `container.slave` is renamed to `container.replica`

The `container.slave` option is still recognized as an alias of `container.replica`
but is deprecated and will be removed in a future release.

#### The `MessageOfTheDay` extension point is removed.

The `MessageOfTheDay` functionality was not ported to the PolyGerrit-UI and
the `MessageOfTheDay` extension point was removed with the 3.1.3 release.
However, the JS API provides the `banner` entrypoint for plugins to add messages
to the UI. Plugins that were previously using the `MessageOfTheDay` extension
point have to be adapted accordingly.

## New Features

### Git Protocol V2

Git protocol V2 is now enabled by default. A new permission-aware ref database
ensures that Gerrit only ever returns refs that the calling user has access to.

### Mandatory Plugins

It is possible to
[configure which plugins are mandatory](http://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.0/config-gerrit.html#plugins.mandatory).
Gerrit will fail to start if a mandatory plugin cannot be loaded.

Disabling and restarting of a mandatory plugin is rejected, but reloading of a
mandatory plugin is still possible.

### Replication plugin

* [Issue 11196](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11196):
Latency metric is now recorded also at a project level, only when
the latency was greater than a configured threshold, configurable in
`replication.config`

### New option to limit options used when rendering internal events.

The new option
[`event.payload.listChangeOptions`](http://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.0/config-gerrit.html#event.payload.listChangeOptions)
allows to configure which options are used when rendering internal
events. This can be used to reduce performance impact of rendering
many options.

### Performance logging and tracing

See the [documentation](http://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.0/config-gerrit.html#tracing)
for full details.

### REST APIs

* Accounts

  * The `DETAILS` query option on the
  [query accounts](http://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.0/rest-api-accounts.html#query-account)
  endpoint now includes the `status` and `state` fields in the response.

* Changes

  * New [`SKIP_DIFFSTAT`](http://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.0/rest-api-changes.html#skip_diffstat)
  option for the query changes endpoint.

    Computation of the `insertions` and `deletions` fields may be expensive for
    large trees. The new `SKIP_DIFFSTAT` option allows to omit it from the result.

  * New `exclude-groups` option on the
  [Suggest Reviewers](http://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.0/rest-api-changes.html#suggest-reviewers)
  endpoint.

  * New optional `commit-message` field on the
  [input for cherry-pick endpoints](http://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.0/rest-api-changes.html#cherrypick-input).

    If the optional message is provided, it is used, otherwise the message from
    the cherry-picked change is used.

  * New optional `topic` field on the
  [input for the revert endpoint](http://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.0/rest-api-changes.html#revert-input).

    If the optional topic is provided, it is used, otherwise the topic from the
    reverted change is used.

* Config

  * The value of
  [`change.api.excludeMergeableInChangeInfo`](http://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.0/config-gerrit.html#change.api.excludeMergeableInChangeInfo)
  is now included in the response from the
  [Get Server Info endpoint](http://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.0/rest-api-config.html#get-info).

* Projects

  * New endpoint: [Update dashboard](http://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.0/rest-api-projects.html#update-dashboard).

    The new endpoint currently only works for the default dashboard.

## Bug Fixes

* [Issue 5082](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=5082):
Fix internal server error when getting blame for removed/replaced file.

* [Issue 11918](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11918):
Fix internal server error when deleting a ref by git push.

* [Issue 12246](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12246):
Fix generation of duplicate `Change-Id`s when creating a new change via REST.

  The `Change-Id` was computed from the commit content and the timestamp,
  which resulted in the possibility for two changes to get the same `Change-Id`
  when two empty changes were created by REST at the same time.

  The `Change-Id` is now generated randomly.

## Dependency Updates

* Remove easymock, powermock and javassist from the acceptance framework

* Remove promise-polyfill

* Add mockito in the acceptance framework

* Upgrade Apache sshd and mina-core to 2.3.0

* Upgrade auto-value to 1.7

* Upgrade bouncycastle to 1.61

* Upgrade commons-compress to 1.18

* Upgrade gitiles-servlet and blame-cache to 0.3-6

* Upgrade jetty to 9.4.18.v20190429

* Upgrade JGit to v5.5.1.201910021850-r-152-g63fc6970c

* Upgrade polymer to 2.7.2

  * Upgrade polymerelements/iron-autogrow-textarea to 2.2.0

  * Upgrade polymerelements/iron-dropdown to 2.2.1

  * Upgrade polymerelements/iron-icon to 2.1.0

  * Upgrade polymerelements/iron-iconset-svg to 2.2.1

  * Upgrade polymerelements/iron-input to 2.1.3

  * Upgrade polymerelements/iron-overlay-behavior to 2.3.4

  * Upgrade polymerelements/iron-selector to 2.1.0

  * Upgrade polymerelements/iron-test-helpers to 2.0.1

  * Upgrade polymerelements/test-fixture to 3.0.0

  * Upgrade polymerelements/paper-button to 2.1.3

  * Upgrade polymerelements/paper-input to 2.2.3

  * Upgrade polymerelements/paper-item to 2.1.1

  * Upgrade polymerelements/paper-listbox to 2.1.1

  * Upgrade polymerelements/paper-tabs to 2.1.1

  * Upgrade polymerelements/paper-toggle-button to 2.1.1

  * Upgrade visionmedia/page.js to 1.11.4

* Upgrade truth to 1.0

## Bugfix Releases

### 3.1.4

* Breaking Changes

  * The `LogThreshold` annotation is removed.

    The default log level for tests has been changed from DEBUG to INFO,
    and this annotation is no longer needed. It was originally introduced
    to allow classes to explicitly set their log level at level other than
    DEBUG.

    Plugins that use this annotation must be adjusted.

  * Cache disk stat metrics are not collected by default anymore

    The expensive computation of disk stat metrics for H2 caches is now disabled
    by default. It can be enabled by setting the `cache.enableDiskStatMetrics`
    option in the `gerrit.config` to `true`.

* New Features

  * Add support for Elasticsearch 7.6.x.

  * Include `upload-pack` metrics in the sshd log.

    In order to enable detailed performance and problem analysis,
    `upload-pack` metrics are now included in the sshd log.

  * Add new configuration setting `core.packedGitUseStrongRefs`.

    When set to true, this option enables using strong references to reference
    packfile pages cached in the WindowCache. If this option is set Java gc can
    no longer flush the WindowCache to free memory if the used heap comes close
    to the maximum heap size. On the other hand this provides more predictable
    performance.

  * Add new configuration setting `sendemail.denyrcpt`.

    This new setting works alongside the existing `sendemail.allowrcpt`, and
    allows to configure email addresses or domains that Gerrit may not send to.

  * Allow to format HTTP and SSH logs in JSON format.

    When `log.jsonLogging` is enabled, the HTTP and SSH logs are formatted
    as JSON, making it easier for them to be parsed. Note that the error log
    was already formatted in JSON when this option was enabled.

  * Add new metrics.

    Metrics are added for:

    * Jetty connections
    * JGit WindowCache and total load time for block cache entries
    * Available number of cores
    * Average system load for the last minute

    Refer to the metrics documentation for full details.

  * [Issue 11493](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11493):
  Add an "Edit" button to the diff view in the PolyGerrit UI.

  * Add support for fsharp in highlighting syntax in the PolyGerrit UI.

  * [Issue 12364](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12364):
  Add support for going to a specific line number in the inline editor.

  * Add prolog predicate to determine number of parents.

    The new predicate `commit_parent_count` can be used to detect merge
    commits.

  * Add `NamedFluentLogger`.

    `NamedFluentLogger` is an extension to Flogger that allows to create
    a logger with a given name rather than the name of the enclosing class.

  * [Issue 12444](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12444):
  Add support for `max_result_window` in Elasticsearch index configuration.

  * Add a Code Coverage layer and plugin API in the PolyGerrit UI.

    See [Chromium issue 939904](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=939904)
    for details.

  * Allow customizing the Gerrit httpd.listenUrl configuration in Docker using
  the HTTPD_LISTEN_URL environment variable.

* Library Upgrades

  * Upgrade jackson-core to 2.10.3

  * Upgrade Jetty to 9.4.24.v20191120, including a fix for supporting IPv6.

  * Upgrade JGit to v5.6.1.202002131546-r-15-g241557137

  * Upgrade rules_closure to forked version.

    This fixes the "-parameters is not supported for target value 1.7. Use 1.8 or later."
    warning when building. See [PR 478](https://github.com/bazelbuild/rules_closure/pull/478).

* Security Fixes

  * [Issue 12440](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12440):
  Fix the access-path for AbstractGitCommand subclasses.

    The access path for the Receive.currentUser in the receive-pack command
    was wrongly set to SSH_COMMAND instead of to GIT.
    This allowed project owners to force-update a ref using git-over-SSH
    without having en explicit permission for that.

* Bug Fixes

  * Fix size explosion of `All-Users` caused by draft comment removal.

    Modify draft comments generation so that, when removed, they to point to an
    empty parent.

  * [Issue 11772](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11772):
  Cancel deprecation of change identifiers that was planned since 2.16.

    Since 2.16 the documentation of change identifiers states that the
    identifiers other than `<project>~<numericid>` are deprecated and will
    be removed in a future release. Since then the identifiers have still
    not been removed and there is no clear plan to do so.

    It is likely that "deprecated" identifiers are still used in links in
    places where they can't be updated, for example in emails and forum
    posts. Due to this, and since continuing to support all of the types
    does not add any technical burden, ESC decided that the deprecation
    should be cancelled.

    The `change.api.allowedIdentifier` configuration setting is now
    obsolete and has been removed.

  * [Issue 3340](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=3340):
  Fix internal server errors when setting project access permission with bad regex.

  * Fix removal of stale metrics from the metrics registry.

  * [Issue 12349](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12349):
  Fix time attribute of file entries in plugin artifacts.

  * Make assumption on number of query results explicit for change Id arguments.

    When a change Id passed as argument was resolved to multiple changes,
    the first returned change was arbitrarily used. Now an error will be raised
    and logged.

  * download-commands plugin: Set SSH default port to 22.

  * Document dependency from account deactivator to autoUpdateAccountActiveStatus
  and log a warning if the account deactivation task is configured but will not
  be scheduled.

  * Fix handling of ambiguous name in `visibleto` search predicate.

    If the `visibleto` search predicate was used with a display name that
    resolved to more than one account, the first account in the result was
    arbitrarily used. Now, this case will result in an error.

  * Fix a dependency injection runtime error in DeleteZombieDrafts program.

  * [Issue 12473](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12473):
  Fix broken links in Elasticsearch configuration documentation.

* PolyGerrit UI Fixes

  * [Issue 4616](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=4616):
  Open commentlinks to changes on the same server in the same tab.

  * [Issue 12031](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12031):
  Fix issues with caching edited commit message.

  * Remove `target=_self` from commentlinks.

* Replication Plugin Fixes

  * Check nulls in firePendingEvents at startup.

    After a sudden reboot (for unknown reason) Gerrit at startup couldn't
    load because of NullPointerException.

  * Change default for the `replicateOnStartup` to false.

  * [Issue 12559](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12559):
  replicateOnStartup not loaded and always considered as false.

### 3.1.3

* New Features

  * Include request description in HTTP thread names.

    The HTTP worker threads had generic names like `HTTP-100`, `HTTP-101`,
    etc. While we could conclude from the stack trace what this thread was
    doing, we missed some important information like repository name, user name,
    etc.

    The HTTP threads now have descriptive names. For example, if there is an
    ongoing git-fetch operation we will see a thread named like:
    `HTTP POST /a/myProject/git-upload-pack (johndoe from 10.87.75.169)`.

    This makes the naming consistent with SSHD threads, which are named like:
    `SSH git-upload-pack /myProject (johndoe)`.

  * New metrics for Jetty threadpool.

    The new metrics are exposed under `http/server/jetty/*`.

  * Utility program to delete zombie draft comment refs.

    Deletion of draft comment refs was broken until 2.16.14, resulting in
    draft comment refs not getting deleted properly. Although it has been fixed,
    it's still possible that zombie refs exist from previous versions. The
    new site program `DeleteZombieCommentsRefs` can be used to remove them.

  * Highlight `WORKSPACE` and `BUILD.bazel` files as Python in the PolyGerrit UI.

* Breaking Changes

  * The `MessageOfTheDay` extension point is removed.

    The `MessageOfTheDay` functionality was not ported to the PolyGerrit-UI and
    the `MessageOfTheDay` extension point was removed with the 3.1.3 release.
    However, the JS API provides the `banner` entrypoint for plugins to add messages
    to the UI. Plugins that were previously using the `MessageOfTheDay` extension
    point have to be adapted accordingly.

* Bug Fixes

  * [Issue 12097](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12097):
  Fix migration to NoteDb when orphan changes exist.

    In the case where a change belonged to a repository that did not exist,
    the migration failed.

  * [Issue 9296](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=9296):
  Fix wrong diff of commit message between different patch sets of a merge commit.

  * [Issue 7969](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=7969):
  Fix internal server error when diffing `MERGE_LIST` between different patch sets
  of a merge commit.

  * [Issue 10397](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=10397):
  Don't send notification email when publishing a change edit on a WIP change.

  * [Issue 12243](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12243):
  Fix unexpected deactivation of service user accounts.

  * Fix editing name and email for service user accounts.

  * Fix internal server error when a change edit includes an invalid file path.

    Invalid file paths are now rejected as '400 Bad Request'.

  * Fix internal server error when giving an invalid merge strategy to the
  'Create Merge Patch Set' REST endpoint.

  * Fix a resource leak in the 'Get Patch' REST endpoint.

  * Don't check for conflicting refs when deleting a ref; improve performance of
  migration to schema 167.

    The migration to schema 167 involves deletion of refs. The performance was
    poor for large installations (for example 30k user refs and 20k groups)
    because the ref deletion implementation was doing an unnecessary check for
    conflicting refs.

  * Fix setting `_moreChanges` to the wrong value in change query REST results.

  * Upgrade highlight-js to get various fixes in source code highlighting:

    * fix(makefile) fix double relevance for assignments
    * (xml) expand and improve document type highlighting
    * fix(kotlin): fix termination of """ string literals
    * (cpp) Add additional keywords
    * Backslash is not used to escape in strings in standard SQL
    * (javascript) fix jsx self-closing tag issues
    * enh(ini) support arrays and much cleaner grammar
    * (javascript) support jsx fragments

* PolyGerrit UI Fixes

  * [Issue 11980](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11980):
  Fix handling of LDAP groups containing a dot in the PolyGerrit permissions screen.

  * [Issue 12197](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12197):
  Fix rendering of commentlinks using `link`.

  * [Issue 11697](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11697):
  Fix rendering of commentlinks without leading whitespace.

  * [Issue 12224](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12224):
  Honor the date format preference when displaying dates.

  * [Issue 12184](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12184):
  Fix link in blame annotation to link directly to the commit.

  * [Issue 12108](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12108):
  Add missing 'Page ...' on pagination links in the repository list.

  * Fix the size of the commit message box.

  * Fix a parse error on the repository list.

  * Fix multiple triggers when `shift-r` is held.

  * Wrap filenames onto two lines in the file list if the filename is too long.

  * Add a right margin to the search bar.

    This creates some space between the search bar and the `header-browse-source`
     endpoint where you often see a 'Repositories' link.

  * Replace 'Menlo' font with 'SF Mono'.

    'Menlo' was replaced by 'SF Mono' from Mac OS 10.11, and 'Menlo' does not render
    symbols and characters correctly.

* Other Changes

  * Upgrade JGit to v5.6.0.201912101111-r-31-g3d59d1b80.

  * Upgrade jackson-core dependency to 2.10.2

  * Improve logging when a metadata update fails.

  * Update [external Ids documentation](http://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.1.3/config-accounts.html#external-ids)
   with information on how to find the sha1 of an external Id and how to show the
   corresponding change note.

### 3.1.2

* New Features

  * Include thread name in the HTTPD and SSHD logs.

    Having thread name in the HTTPD and SSHD logs makes it easier to match entries
    from the error log. The error log entries already contain the thread name, so
    with the thread name included in each entry in the HTTPD and SSHD logs, we have
    more data to match an error to a request than just the timestamp.

* PolyGerrit UI Fixes

  * [Issue 12067](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12067):
  Fix blank screen after upgrading.

* Other Fixes

  * [Issue 12070](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12070):
  Fix internal server error on git over HTTP calls when SSHD is enabled.

    Double cleanup of the request context caused an internal server error on
    push or fetch via git over HTTP.

  * Fix generation of SSH keys with empty passphrase.

    The `-N` option of `ssh-keygen` was correctly used for generation of RSA keys,
    but for other types `-P` was used.

  * Extend documentation of external Ids to include examples of how to generate
  the sha1 of an external Id and how to show the git note of the Id.


### 3.1.1

* New Features

  * [Issue 11973](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11973):
  Add copy-to-clipboard for generated HTTP password.

  * Add support for doctag in PolyGerrit UI syntax highlighter.

  * Add an event interface in the PolyGerrit API.

  * Add support for Elasticsearch 7.5.

  * Add documentation of how to perform backups of Gerrit.

* PolyGerrit UI Fixes

  * [Issue 12024](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12024):
  Fix undefined branch in create-destination-dialog.

  * [Issue 11969](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11969):
  Fix tab index in reply dialog.

  * [Issue 11993](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11993):
  Stop loading fonts from external resources.

  * [Issue 11984](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11984):
  Fix top menu bar on iOS.

  * [Issue 8282](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=8282):
  Avoid browser caching for diff on edit patch.

  * [Issue 9444](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=9444):
  Fix syntax highlighting for multi-char char constants.

  * [Issue 12020](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=12020):
  Fix 'New Contributor Agreement' screen.

  * Fix `gr-syntax-params` css class.

  * Fix overflow of branch name in change list.

* Other Fixes

  * [Issue 11989](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11989):
  Fix internal server error when pushing over SSH with git protocol v2.

  * [Issue 11962](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11962):
  Fix advertisement of `refs/meta/config` in git protocol v2 when client does
  not have access to it.

  * [Issue 11986](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11986):
  Fix fetching individual ref with git protocol v2.

  * [Issue 7645](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=7645):
  Fix thread deadlock when loading accounts from the account cache.

    Replacing Guava caches with Caffeine reduces the chances of having the
    deadlocks and improves the cache performance.

  * [Issue 11918](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11918):
  Fix internal server error when deleting a tag or branch by git push.

  * [Issue 11650](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=11650):
  Fix reindexing of changes after project is deleted in the `delete-project` plugin.

  * Disallow deleting the `refs/meta/config` branch via the 'Delete Branches'
  REST API.

  * Disallow deleting the `HEAD` ref via the 'Delete Branches' REST API.

  * Allow empty base revision in the 'Create Branch' and 'Create Tag'
  REST APIs.

  * Fix deletion of draft comment refs.

    In some situations, draft comment refs were not properly deleted
    but left empty. This resulted in unused draft refs persisting in
    the `All-Users` repository, polluting the namespace. Published draft
    comments as well as deleted draft comments were kept in the history
    of the draft ref, keeping them alive for GC, and causing a steady
    increase of repository size.

  * Use correct content type `text/plain` instead of `plain/text` in 'Create SSH Key'
  REST API.

  * Fix handling of interactive/batch users in the QoS filter.

    For the git-over-http requests this filter didn't work properly because the
    basic authentication happened later in the filter chain and at the moment when
    the QoS filter was invoked the current user was not yet set.

  * Add project name to headers of outgoing change emails.

  * Fix and expand documentation of `ref-update` and `commit-received` hooks
  in the hooks plugin.

  * Upgrade JGit to v5.6.0.201912041214-rc1
