---
title: "Gerrit 3.8.0"
permalink: 3.8.html
hide_sidebar: true
hide_navtoggle: true
toc: true
---


Download: **[3.8.0-rc1](https://gerrit-releases.storage.googleapis.com/gerrit-3.8.0-rc1.war)**

Documentation: **[3.8.0-rc1](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.8.0/index.html)**

## Release highlights

## Important notes

### Schema and index changes

This release doesn't contain schema changes.

The `changes` index version has been increased to version _82_. By default, the
index is automatically rebuilt upon the Gerrit startup after the
upgrade.

### Offline upgrade

1. Download the new gerrit.war
2. Stop Gerrit
3. Run init

```sh
  java -jar gerrit.war init -d site_path --batch
```

4. Run reindex of `changes`:

```sh
  java -jar gerrit.war reindex --index changes -d site_path
```

5. Start Gerrit

### Online upgrade with zero-downtime

Gerrit v3.8.x supports zero-downtime upgrade from Gerrit v3.7.2 or later when
configured using a [high-availability configuration](https://gerrit.googlesource.com/plugins/high-availability/+/refs/heads/master/README.md),
and the Git repositories are stored in a shared filesystem such as NFS or
similar.

During the zero-downtime upgrade, Gerrit end-users would not notice any outage
or service disruption. They will be able to perform any read/write Gerrit
operation on the GUI or using any API.

The zero-downtime upgrade consists of the following steps:

1. Have Gerrit servers running v3.7.2 or later, in high-availability
   configuration, healthy and able to handle the incoming traffic properly.
2. Set `gerrit.experimentalRollingUpgrade` to `true` in `gerrit.config` on both Gerrit primaries.
3. Set one of the Gerrit servers to unhealthy.
4. Shutdown the Gerrit server, update gerrit.war and plugins to v3.8.x and start
   Gerrit again.
5. Verify that the Gerrit server is working properly (e.g. run automated smoke
   tests) and then make it healthy again.
6. Wait for the Gerrit server to start serving traffic normally.
7. Repeat steps 3. to 6. for all the other Gerrit servers.
8. Remove `gerrit.experimentalRollingUpgrade` from `gerrit.config` on both Gerrit primaries.

### Downgrade

Downgrade to any Gerrit v3.7.x release is possible, but requires the
following manual steps:

1. Shutdown all migrated Gerrit v3.8.x servers
2. Update the gerrit.war and plugins to the previous v3.7.x version
3. Run offline change reindexing using the previous gerrit.war version

```sh
  java -jar gerrit.war init -d site_path --batch
  java -jar gerrit.war reindex --index changes -d site_path
```

4. Startup Gerrit server

### Breaking changes

### Other changes

## Plugin changes

* download-commands:
  * [Change 359823](https://gerrit-review.googlesource.com/359823):
  Always use HTTP when downloading commit-msg hook.

## Gerrit UI changes

## Documentation changes

## End-to-End tests changes

## JGit changes

## Other dependency changes

## Other core changes

## Bugfix releases

### No release candidate

* Breaking changes

* Performance Fixes

* Bug Fixes

* Dependency Updates

* Documentation Fixes
