---
title: "Gerrit 3.9.0"
permalink: 3.9.html
hide_sidebar: true
hide_navtoggle: true
toc: true
---

Download: **[3.9.0-rc3](https://gerrit-releases.storage.googleapis.com/gerrit-3.9.0-rc3.war)**

Documentation: **[3.9.0-rc3](http://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.9.0/index.html)**

## Release highlights

### Java 17

The language level used for Gerrit source code stays on Java 11, however,
Gerrit is built and distributed for Java 17, which is the recommended JVM
version for running it in production.

### New stream events

**batch-refupdate**

Gerrit notifies all the refs of a single batch-refupdate as a single stream
event JSON payload. The new event is controlled by configuration and can be
switched off for backward compatibility with legacy CI/CD systems.

**ref-update** for draft-comments

Gerrit generates the ref-update event for all the additions and removals of
draft comments in the `All-Users` project. This is needed for replicating the
`All-Users` project across sites, thanks to the replication plugins being
notified of the updates.

### New limits

There are new limit definitions which can be used to protect Gerrit from
improper client activity.

- `change.topicLimit`: defines the maximum number of changes in the same
  topic.

- `change.maxFileSizeDownload`: prevents memory overload caused by clients
  downloading large files from REST-API.

- `change.maxFileSizeDiff`: prevents memory overload caused by rendering
  large files diffs in a browser.

### New diff3 view

A new `change.diff3ConflictView` option allows to enable a richer diff3
rendering of changes with conflict markers.

### Attention-set improvements

Gerrit can return changes to the original attention set assignment if any
of the new assignees do not provide feedback within a specific time.
The behaviour is controlled by two new settings, `attentionSet.readdAfter`
and `attentionSet.readdMessage`.

### Indexing improvements

Allow to limit the queries that do not specify a default limit and also
can now reindex changes with an asynchronous process when a change is updated
from the UI, controlled by the `index.indexChangesAsync`.

The new option yields a much more responsive user-experience by releasing
UI elements without waiting for the backend reindex execution to complete.

### Account deletion

Users can now delete their own account, making it possible to be forgotten
by the Gerrit Code Review platform. Please note that existing commits in
the projects will stay and the account's e-mail stored in Git commits
will be preserved beyond account deletion.

### Plugin development

#### Custom key/value pairs stored in NoteDb

Plugins may store additional string key/value pairs to change notes in NoteDb.

#### Cross-plugin communication and dependency

Plugins can communicate and declare dependencies to other plugins thanks to the
introduction of `Api-Module` Guice modules and plugin manifest.

## Important notes

### Schema and index changes

This release doesn't contain schema changes.

The `changes` index version has been increased to version _85_.

### Online index schema upgrade from 3.8

By default, if you're upgrading from 3.8, the index is automatically
rebuilt upon Gerrit startup after the upgrade.

If you're upgrading from 3.7 or an earlier version, you must use the
Offline upgrade steps below.

### Offline upgrade

1. Download the new gerrit.war
2. Stop Gerrit
3. Ensure all installed plugins are compatible with the new API
4. Run init

```sh
  java -jar gerrit.war init -d site_path --batch
```

5. Reindex

  * If you are upgrading from a 3.8 version you don't need to run reindex (see
    `Online index schema upgrade from 3.8` above). If you still want to you will
    only need to run reindex of `changes`:

      ```sh
      java -jar gerrit.war reindex --index changes -d site_path
      ```

   * If you are upgrading from a 3.7 version, or an earlier version, you must
     run a reindex of all indexes:

      ```sh
      java -jar gerrit.war reindex -d site_path
      ```

See
the [reindex](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/3.9.0/pgm-reindex.html)
program for other options.

6. Start Gerrit

### Online upgrade with zero-downtime

Gerrit v3.9.x supports zero-downtime upgrade from Gerrit v3.8.2 or later when
configured using a [high-availability configuration](https://gerrit.googlesource.com/plugins/high-availability/+/refs/heads/master/README.md),
and the Git repositories are stored in a shared filesystem such as NFS or
similar.

During the zero-downtime upgrade, Gerrit end-users would not notice any outage
or service disruption. They will be able to perform any read/write Gerrit
operation on the GUI or using any API.

The zero-downtime upgrade consists of the following steps:

1. Have Gerrit servers running v3.8.2 or later, in high-availability
   configuration, healthy and able to handle the incoming traffic properly.
2. Set `gerrit.experimentalRollingUpgrade` to `true` in `gerrit.config` on both Gerrit primaries.
3. Set one of the Gerrit servers to unhealthy.
4. Shutdown the Gerrit server, update gerrit.war and plugins to v3.9.x and start
   Gerrit again.
5. Verify that the Gerrit server is working properly (e.g. run automated smoke
   tests) and then make it healthy again.
6. Wait for the Gerrit server to start serving traffic normally.
7. Repeat steps 3. to 6. for all the other Gerrit servers.
8. Remove `gerrit.experimentalRollingUpgrade` from `gerrit.config` on both Gerrit primaries.

### Downgrade

Downgrade to any Gerrit v3.8.x release is possible, but requires the
following manual steps:

1. Shutdown all migrated Gerrit v3.8.x servers
2. Update the gerrit.war and plugins to the previous v3.8.x version
3. Run offline change reindexing using the previous gerrit.war version

```sh
  java -jar gerrit.war init -d site_path --batch
  java -jar gerrit.war reindex --index changes -d site_path
```

4. Startup Gerrit server

### Native packaging

### Breaking changes

### Other changes

## Plugin changes

## Performance changes

## Documentation changes

## JGit changes

## Other dependency changes


## Other core changes

## Bugfix releases
